Department(s),Course Description,University,Title,Description,credits,combined_text,Course Num
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Basic building blocks and design methods to contruct synchronous digital systems, such as general purpose processors, hardware accelerators, and application specific processors. Representations and design methodologies for digital systems. Logic design using combinatorial and sequential circuits. Digital system implementation considering hardware descriptions languages, computer-aided design tools, field-programmable gate array architectures, and CMOS logic gates and state elements. Interfaces between peripherals, processor hardware, and software. Formal hardware laboratories and substantial design project.",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Basic building blocks and design methods to contruct synchronous digital systems, such as general purpose processors, hardware accelerators, and application specific processors. Representations and design methodologies for digital systems. Logic design using combinatorial and sequential circuits. Digital system implementation considering hardware descriptions languages, computer-aided design tools, field-programmable gate array architectures, and CMOS logic gates and state elements. Interfaces between peripherals, processor hardware, and software. Formal hardware laboratories and substantial design project.",5,"COMPSCI Basic building blocks and design methods to contruct synchronous digital systems, such as general purpose processors, hardware accelerators, and application specific processors. Representations and design methodologies for digital systems. Logic design using combinatorial and sequential circuits. Digital system implementation considering hardware descriptions languages, computer-aided design tools, field-programmable gate array architectures, and CMOS logic gates and state elements. Interfaces between peripherals, processor hardware, and software. Formal hardware laboratories and substantial design project.",150
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Instruction set architecture, microcoding, pipelining (simple and complex). Memory hierarchies and virtual memory. Processor parallelism: VLIW, vectors, multithreading. Multiprocessors.",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Instruction set architecture, microcoding, pipelining (simple and complex). Memory hierarchies and virtual memory. Processor parallelism: VLIW, vectors, multithreading. Multiprocessors.",4,"COMPSCI Instruction set architecture, microcoding, pipelining (simple and complex). Memory hierarchies and virtual memory. Processor parallelism: VLIW, vectors, multithreading. Multiprocessors.",152
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"The design, implementation, and evaluation of user interfaces. User-centered design and task analysis. Conceptual models and interface metaphors. Usability inspection and evaluation methods. Analysis of user study data. Input methods (keyboard, pointing, touch, tangible) and input models. Visual design principles. Interface prototyping and implementation methodologies and tools. Students will develop a user interface for a specific task and target user group in teams. ",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"The design, implementation, and evaluation of user interfaces. User-centered design and task analysis. Conceptual models and interface metaphors. Usability inspection and evaluation methods. Analysis of user study data. Input methods (keyboard, pointing, touch, tangible) and input models. Visual design principles. Interface prototyping and implementation methodologies and tools. Students will develop a user interface for a specific task and target user group in teams.",4,"COMPSCI The design, implementation, and evaluation of user interfaces. User-centered design and task analysis. Conceptual models and interface metaphors. Usability inspection and evaluation methods. Analysis of user study data. Input methods (keyboard, pointing, touch, tangible) and input models. Visual design principles. Interface prototyping and implementation methodologies and tools. Students will develop a user interface for a specific task and target user group in teams.",160
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Introduction to computer security. Cryptography, including encryption, authentication, hash functions, cryptographic protocols, and applications. Operating system security, access control. Network security, firewalls, viruses, and worms. Software security, defensive programming, and language-based security. Case studies from real-world systems. ",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Introduction to computer security. Cryptography, including encryption, authentication, hash functions, cryptographic protocols, and applications. Operating system security, access control. Network security, firewalls, viruses, and worms. Software security, defensive programming, and language-based security. Case studies from real-world systems.",4,"COMPSCI Introduction to computer security. Cryptography, including encryption, authentication, hash functions, cryptographic protocols, and applications. Operating system security, access control. Network security, firewalls, viruses, and worms. Software security, defensive programming, and language-based security. Case studies from real-world systems.",161
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Basic concepts of operating systems and system programming. Utility programs, subsystems, multiple-program systems. Processes, interprocess communication, and synchronization. Memory allocation, segmentation, paging. Loading and linking, libraries. Resource allocation, scheduling, performance evaluation. File systems, storage devices, I/O systems. Protection, security, and privacy. ",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Basic concepts of operating systems and system programming. Utility programs, subsystems, multiple-program systems. Processes, interprocess communication, and synchronization. Memory allocation, segmentation, paging. Loading and linking, libraries. Resource allocation, scheduling, performance evaluation. File systems, storage devices, I/O systems. Protection, security, and privacy.",4,"COMPSCI Basic concepts of operating systems and system programming. Utility programs, subsystems, multiple-program systems. Processes, interprocess communication, and synchronization. Memory allocation, segmentation, paging. Loading and linking, libraries. Resource allocation, scheduling, performance evaluation. File systems, storage devices, I/O systems. Protection, security, and privacy.",162
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Survey of programming languages. The design of modern programming languages. Principles and techniques of scanning, parsing, semantic analysis, and code generation. Implementation of compilers, interpreters, and assemblers. Overview of run-time organization and error handling. ",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Survey of programming languages. The design of modern programming languages. Principles and techniques of scanning, parsing, semantic analysis, and code generation. Implementation of compilers, interpreters, and assemblers. Overview of run-time organization and error handling.",4,"COMPSCI Survey of programming languages. The design of modern programming languages. Principles and techniques of scanning, parsing, semantic analysis, and code generation. Implementation of compilers, interpreters, and assemblers. Overview of run-time organization and error handling.",164
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"This course is an introduction to the Internet architecture. We will focus on the concepts and fundamental design principles that have contributed to the Internet's scalability and robustness and survey the various protocols and algorithms used within this architecture. Topics include layering, addressing, intradomain routing, interdomain routing, reliable delivery, congestion control, and the core protocols (e.g., TCP, UDP, IP, DNS, and HTTP) and network technologies (e.g., Ethernet, wireless).",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"This course is an introduction to the Internet architecture. We will focus on the concepts and fundamental design principles that have contributed to the Internet's scalability and robustness and survey the various protocols and algorithms used within this architecture. Topics include layering, addressing, intradomain routing, interdomain routing, reliable delivery, congestion control, and the core protocols (e.g., TCP, UDP, IP, DNS, and HTTP) and network technologies (e.g., Ethernet, wireless).",4,"COMPSCI This course is an introduction to the Internet architecture. We will focus on the concepts and fundamental design principles that have contributed to the Internet's scalability and robustness and survey the various protocols and algorithms used within this architecture. Topics include layering, addressing, intradomain routing, interdomain routing, reliable delivery, congestion control, and the core protocols (e.g., TCP, UDP, IP, DNS, and HTTP) and network technologies (e.g., Ethernet, wireless).",168
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Ideas and techniques for designing, developing, and modifying large software systems. Service-oriented architecture, behavior-driven design with user stories, cloud computing, test-driven development, automated testing, cost and quality metrics for maintainability and effort estimation, practical performance and security in software operations, design patterns and refactoring, specification and documentation, agile project team organization and management.",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Ideas and techniques for designing, developing, and modifying large software systems. Service-oriented architecture, behavior-driven design with user stories, cloud computing, test-driven development, automated testing, cost and quality metrics for maintainability and effort estimation, practical performance and security in software operations, design patterns and refactoring, specification and documentation, agile project team organization and management.",4,"COMPSCI Ideas and techniques for designing, developing, and modifying large software systems. Service-oriented architecture, behavior-driven design with user stories, cloud computing, test-driven development, automated testing, cost and quality metrics for maintainability and effort estimation, practical performance and security in software operations, design patterns and refactoring, specification and documentation, agile project team organization and management.",169A
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Open-ended design project enhancing or creating software for real customers in an agile team setting. Teamwork coordination, effective customer meetings, pre- and post-iteration team meetings, running scrums and standups, technical communication. Contributing as a team to an open-source project; tools and workflows associated with open source collaboration, including fork-and-pull, rebase, upstream merge, continuous deployment & integration.",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Open-ended design project enhancing or creating software for real customers in an agile team setting. Teamwork coordination, effective customer meetings, pre- and post-iteration team meetings, running scrums and standups, technical communication. Contributing as a team to an open-source project; tools and workflows associated with open source collaboration, including fork-and-pull, rebase, upstream merge, continuous deployment & integration.",4,"COMPSCI Open-ended design project enhancing or creating software for real customers in an agile team setting. Teamwork coordination, effective customer meetings, pre- and post-iteration team meetings, running scrums and standups, technical communication. Contributing as a team to an open-source project; tools and workflows associated with open source collaboration, including fork-and-pull, rebase, upstream merge, continuous deployment & integration.",169L
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Concept and basic techniques in the design and analysis of algorithms; models of computation; lower bounds; algorithms for optimum search trees, balanced trees and UNION-FIND algorithms; numerical and algebraic algorithms; combinatorial algorithms. Turing machines, how to count steps, deterministic and nondeterministic Turing machines, NP-completeness. Unsolvable and intractable problems. ",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Concept and basic techniques in the design and analysis of algorithms; models of computation; lower bounds; algorithms for optimum search trees, balanced trees and UNION-FIND algorithms; numerical and algebraic algorithms; combinatorial algorithms. Turing machines, how to count steps, deterministic and nondeterministic Turing machines, NP-completeness. Unsolvable and intractable problems.",4,"COMPSCI Concept and basic techniques in the design and analysis of algorithms; models of computation; lower bounds; algorithms for optimum search trees, balanced trees and UNION-FIND algorithms; numerical and algebraic algorithms; combinatorial algorithms. Turing machines, how to count steps, deterministic and nondeterministic Turing machines, NP-completeness. Unsolvable and intractable problems.",170
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Cryptography or cryptology is the science of designing algorithms and protocols for enabling parties to communicate and compute securely in an untrusted environment (e.g. secure communication, digital signature, etc.) Over the last four decades, cryptography has transformed from an ad hoc collection of mysterious tricks into a rigorous science based on firm complexity-theoretic foundations.  This modern complexity-theoretic approach to cryptography will be the focus. E.g., in the context of encryption we will begin by giving a precise mathematical definition for what it means to be a secure encryption scheme and then give a construction (realizing this security notion) assuming various computational hardness assumptions (e.g. factoring). ",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Cryptography or cryptology is the science of designing algorithms and protocols for enabling parties to communicate and compute securely in an untrusted environment (e.g. secure communication, digital signature, etc.) Over the last four decades, cryptography has transformed from an ad hoc collection of mysterious tricks into a rigorous science based on firm complexity-theoretic foundations.  This modern complexity-theoretic approach to cryptography will be the focus. E.g., in the context of encryption we will begin by giving a precise mathematical definition for what it means to be a secure encryption scheme and then give a construction (realizing this security notion) assuming various computational hardness assumptions (e.g. factoring).",4,"COMPSCI Cryptography or cryptology is the science of designing algorithms and protocols for enabling parties to communicate and compute securely in an untrusted environment (e.g. secure communication, digital signature, etc.) Over the last four decades, cryptography has transformed from an ad hoc collection of mysterious tricks into a rigorous science based on firm complexity-theoretic foundations.  This modern complexity-theoretic approach to cryptography will be the focus. E.g., in the context of encryption we will begin by giving a precise mathematical definition for what it means to be a secure encryption scheme and then give a construction (realizing this security notion) assuming various computational hardness assumptions (e.g. factoring).",171
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Finite automata, Turing machines and RAMs. Undecidable, exponential, and polynomial-time problems. Polynomial-time equivalence of all reasonable models of computation. Nondeterministic Turing machines. Theory of NP-completeness: Cook's theorem, NP-completeness of basic problems. Selected topics in language theory, complexity and randomness. ",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Finite automata, Turing machines and RAMs. Undecidable, exponential, and polynomial-time problems. Polynomial-time equivalence of all reasonable models of computation. Nondeterministic Turing machines. Theory of NP-completeness: Cook's theorem, NP-completeness of basic problems. Selected topics in language theory, complexity and randomness.",4,"COMPSCI Finite automata, Turing machines and RAMs. Undecidable, exponential, and polynomial-time problems. Polynomial-time equivalence of all reasonable models of computation. Nondeterministic Turing machines. Theory of NP-completeness: Cook's theorem, NP-completeness of basic problems. Selected topics in language theory, complexity and randomness.",172
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Permutations, combinations, principle of inclusion and exclusion, generating functions, Ramsey theory. Expectation and variance, Chebychev's inequality, Chernov bounds. Birthday paradox, coupon collector's problem, Markov chains and entropy computations, universal hashing, random number generation, random graphs and probabilistic existence bounds. ",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Permutations, combinations, principle of inclusion and exclusion, generating functions, Ramsey theory. Expectation and variance, Chebychev's inequality, Chernov bounds. Birthday paradox, coupon collector's problem, Markov chains and entropy computations, universal hashing, random number generation, random graphs and probabilistic existence bounds.",4,"COMPSCI Permutations, combinations, principle of inclusion and exclusion, generating functions, Ramsey theory. Expectation and variance, Chebychev's inequality, Chernov bounds. Birthday paradox, coupon collector's problem, Markov chains and entropy computations, universal hashing, random number generation, random graphs and probabilistic existence bounds.",174
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Algorithms and probabilistic models that arise in various computational biology applications: suffix trees, suffix arrays, pattern matching, repeat finding, sequence alignment, phylogenetics, genome rearrangements, hidden Markov models, gene finding, motif finding, stochastic context free grammars, RNA secondary structure. There are no biology prerequisites for this course, but a strong quantitative background will be essential. ",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Algorithms and probabilistic models that arise in various computational biology applications: suffix trees, suffix arrays, pattern matching, repeat finding, sequence alignment, phylogenetics, genome rearrangements, hidden Markov models, gene finding, motif finding, stochastic context free grammars, RNA secondary structure. There are no biology prerequisites for this course, but a strong quantitative background will be essential.",4,"COMPSCI Algorithms and probabilistic models that arise in various computational biology applications: suffix trees, suffix arrays, pattern matching, repeat finding, sequence alignment, phylogenetics, genome rearrangements, hidden Markov models, gene finding, motif finding, stochastic context free grammars, RNA secondary structure. There are no biology prerequisites for this course, but a strong quantitative background will be essential.",176
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"This advanced undergraduate course introduces students to computing with visual data (images and video). We will cover acquisition, representation, and manipulation of visual information from digital photographs (image processing), image analysis and visual understanding (computer vision), and image synthesis (computational photography). Key algorithms will be presented, ranging from classical to contemporary, with an emphasis on using these techniques to build practical systems. The hands-on emphasis will be reflected in the programming assignments, where students will acquire their own images and develop, largely from scratch, image analysis and synthesis tools for real-world applications.",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"This advanced undergraduate course introduces students to computing with visual data (images and video). We will cover acquisition, representation, and manipulation of visual information from digital photographs (image processing), image analysis and visual understanding (computer vision), and image synthesis (computational photography). Key algorithms will be presented, ranging from classical to contemporary, with an emphasis on using these techniques to build practical systems. The hands-on emphasis will be reflected in the programming assignments, where students will acquire their own images and develop, largely from scratch, image analysis and synthesis tools for real-world applications.",4,"COMPSCI This advanced undergraduate course introduces students to computing with visual data (images and video). We will cover acquisition, representation, and manipulation of visual information from digital photographs (image processing), image analysis and visual understanding (computer vision), and image synthesis (computational photography). Key algorithms will be presented, ranging from classical to contemporary, with an emphasis on using these techniques to build practical systems. The hands-on emphasis will be reflected in the programming assignments, where students will acquire their own images and develop, largely from scratch, image analysis and synthesis tools for real-world applications.",180
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Deep Networks have revolutionized computer vision, language technology, robotics and control. They have growing impact in many other areas of science and engineering. They do not however, follow a closed or compact set of theoretical principles. In Yann Lecun's words they require ""an interplay between intuitive insights, theoretical modeling, practical implementations, empirical studies, and scientific analyses."" This course attempts to cover that ground.",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Deep Networks have revolutionized computer vision, language technology, robotics and control. They have growing impact in many other areas of science and engineering. They do not however, follow a closed or compact set of theoretical principles. In Yann Lecun's words they require ""an interplay between intuitive insights, theoretical modeling, practical implementations, empirical studies, and scientific analyses."" This course attempts to cover that ground.",4,"COMPSCI Deep Networks have revolutionized computer vision, language technology, robotics and control. They have growing impact in many other areas of science and engineering. They do not however, follow a closed or compact set of theoretical principles. In Yann Lecun's words they require ""an interplay between intuitive insights, theoretical modeling, practical implementations, empirical studies, and scientific analyses."" This course attempts to cover that ground.",182
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Techniques of modeling objects for the purpose of computer rendering: boundary representations, constructive solids geometry, hierarchical scene descriptions. Mathematical techniques for curve and surface representation. Basic elements of a computer graphics rendering pipeline; architecture of modern graphics display devices. Geometrical transformations such as rotation, scaling, translation, and their matrix representations. Homogeneous coordinates, projective and perspective transformations. Algorithms for clipping, hidden surface removal, rasterization, and anti-aliasing. Scan-line based and ray-based rendering algorithms. Lighting models for reflection, refraction, transparency. ",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Techniques of modeling objects for the purpose of computer rendering: boundary representations, constructive solids geometry, hierarchical scene descriptions. Mathematical techniques for curve and surface representation. Basic elements of a computer graphics rendering pipeline; architecture of modern graphics display devices. Geometrical transformations such as rotation, scaling, translation, and their matrix representations. Homogeneous coordinates, projective and perspective transformations. Algorithms for clipping, hidden surface removal, rasterization, and anti-aliasing. Scan-line based and ray-based rendering algorithms. Lighting models for reflection, refraction, transparency.",4,"COMPSCI Techniques of modeling objects for the purpose of computer rendering: boundary representations, constructive solids geometry, hierarchical scene descriptions. Mathematical techniques for curve and surface representation. Basic elements of a computer graphics rendering pipeline; architecture of modern graphics display devices. Geometrical transformations such as rotation, scaling, translation, and their matrix representations. Homogeneous coordinates, projective and perspective transformations. Algorithms for clipping, hidden surface removal, rasterization, and anti-aliasing. Scan-line based and ray-based rendering algorithms. Lighting models for reflection, refraction, transparency.",184
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"This course will cover the intersection of control, reinforcement learning, and deep learning. This course will provide an advanced treatment of the reinforcement learning formalism, the most critical model-free reinforcement learning algorithms (policy gradients, value function and Q-function learning, and actor-critic), a discussion of model-based reinforcement learning algorithms, an overview of imitation learning, and a range of advanced topics, including exploration, model-based learning with video prediction, transfer learning, multi-task learning, and meta-learning. Homework assignments will cover imitation learning, policy gradients, Q-learning, and model-based reinforcement learning, as well as a final project. ",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"This course will cover the intersection of control, reinforcement learning, and deep learning. This course will provide an advanced treatment of the reinforcement learning formalism, the most critical model-free reinforcement learning algorithms (policy gradients, value function and Q-function learning, and actor-critic), a discussion of model-based reinforcement learning algorithms, an overview of imitation learning, and a range of advanced topics, including exploration, model-based learning with video prediction, transfer learning, multi-task learning, and meta-learning. Homework assignments will cover imitation learning, policy gradients, Q-learning, and model-based reinforcement learning, as well as a final project.",3,"COMPSCI This course will cover the intersection of control, reinforcement learning, and deep learning. This course will provide an advanced treatment of the reinforcement learning formalism, the most critical model-free reinforcement learning algorithms (policy gradients, value function and Q-function learning, and actor-critic), a discussion of model-based reinforcement learning algorithms, an overview of imitation learning, and a range of advanced topics, including exploration, model-based learning with video prediction, transfer learning, multi-task learning, and meta-learning. Homework assignments will cover imitation learning, policy gradients, Q-learning, and model-based reinforcement learning, as well as a final project.",185
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Access methods and file systems to facilitate data access. Hierarchical, network, relational, and object-oriented data models. Query languages for models. Embedding query languages in programming languages. Database services including protection, integrity control, and alternative views of data. High-level interfaces including application generators, browsers, and report writers. Introduction to transaction processing. Database system implementation to be done as term project. ",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Access methods and file systems to facilitate data access. Hierarchical, network, relational, and object-oriented data models. Query languages for models. Embedding query languages in programming languages. Database services including protection, integrity control, and alternative views of data. High-level interfaces including application generators, browsers, and report writers. Introduction to transaction processing. Database system implementation to be done as term project.",4,"COMPSCI Access methods and file systems to facilitate data access. Hierarchical, network, relational, and object-oriented data models. Query languages for models. Embedding query languages in programming languages. Database services including protection, integrity control, and alternative views of data. High-level interfaces including application generators, browsers, and report writers. Introduction to transaction processing. Database system implementation to be done as term project.",186
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Ideas and techniques underlying the design of intelligent computer systems. Topics include search, game playing, knowledge representation, inference, planning, reasoning under uncertainty, machine learning, robotics, perception, and language understanding.",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Ideas and techniques underlying the design of intelligent computer systems. Topics include search, game playing, knowledge representation, inference, planning, reasoning under uncertainty, machine learning, robotics, perception, and language understanding.",4,"COMPSCI Ideas and techniques underlying the design of intelligent computer systems. Topics include search, game playing, knowledge representation, inference, planning, reasoning under uncertainty, machine learning, robotics, perception, and language understanding.",188
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Theoretical foundations, algorithms, methodologies, and applications for machine learning. Topics may include supervised methods for regression and classication (linear models, trees, neural networks, ensemble methods, instance-based methods); generative and discriminative probabilistic models; Bayesian parametric learning; density estimation and clustering; Bayesian networks; time series models; dimensionality reduction; programming projects covering a variety of real-world applications. ",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Theoretical foundations, algorithms, methodologies, and applications for machine learning. Topics may include supervised methods for regression and classication (linear models, trees, neural networks, ensemble methods, instance-based methods); generative and discriminative probabilistic models; Bayesian parametric learning; density estimation and clustering; Bayesian networks; time series models; dimensionality reduction; programming projects covering a variety of real-world applications.",4,"COMPSCI Theoretical foundations, algorithms, methodologies, and applications for machine learning. Topics may include supervised methods for regression and classication (linear models, trees, neural networks, ensemble methods, instance-based methods); generative and discriminative probabilistic models; Bayesian parametric learning; density estimation and clustering; Bayesian networks; time series models; dimensionality reduction; programming projects covering a variety of real-world applications.",189
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,Topics will vary semester to semester. See the Computer Science Division announcements. ,UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,Topics will vary semester to semester. See the Computer Science Division announcements.,1,COMPSCI Topics will vary semester to semester. See the Computer Science Division announcements.,194
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,Topics include electronic community; the changing nature of work; technological risks; the information economy; intellectual property; privacy; artificial intelligence and the sense of self; pornography and censorship; professional ethics. Students will lead discussions on additional topics.,UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,Topics include electronic community; the changing nature of work; technological risks; the information economy; intellectual property; privacy; artificial intelligence and the sense of self; pornography and censorship; professional ethics. Students will lead discussions on additional topics.,1,COMPSCI Topics include electronic community; the changing nature of work; technological risks; the information economy; intellectual property; privacy; artificial intelligence and the sense of self; pornography and censorship; professional ethics. Students will lead discussions on additional topics.,195
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Students take part in organized individual field sponsored programs with off-campus companies or tutoring/mentoring relevant to specific aspects and applications of computer science on or off campus. Note Summer CPT or OPT students: written report required. Course does not count toward major requirements, but will be counted in the cumulative units toward graduation.",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Students take part in organized individual field sponsored programs with off-campus companies or tutoring/mentoring relevant to specific aspects and applications of computer science on or off campus. Note Summer CPT or OPT students: written report required. Course does not count toward major requirements, but will be counted in the cumulative units toward graduation.",1,"COMPSCI Students take part in organized individual field sponsored programs with off-campus companies or tutoring/mentoring relevant to specific aspects and applications of computer science on or off campus. Note Summer CPT or OPT students: written report required. Course does not count toward major requirements, but will be counted in the cumulative units toward graduation.",197
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Group study of selected topics in Computer Sciences, usually relating to new developments.",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Group study of selected topics in Computer Sciences, usually relating to new developments.",1,"COMPSCI Group study of selected topics in Computer Sciences, usually relating to new developments.",198
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,Supervised independent study. Enrollment restrictions apply.,UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,Supervised independent study. Enrollment restrictions apply.,1,COMPSCI Supervised independent study. Enrollment restrictions apply.,199
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Unified top-down and bottom-up design of integrated circuits and systems concentrating on architectural and topological issues. VLSI architectures, systolic arrays, self-timed systems. Trends in VLSI development. Physical limits. Tradeoffs in custom-design, standard cells, gate arrays. VLSI design tools. ",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Unified top-down and bottom-up design of integrated circuits and systems concentrating on architectural and topological issues. VLSI architectures, systolic arrays, self-timed systems. Trends in VLSI development. Physical limits. Tradeoffs in custom-design, standard cells, gate arrays. VLSI design tools.",4,"COMPSCI Unified top-down and bottom-up design of integrated circuits and systems concentrating on architectural and topological issues. VLSI architectures, systolic arrays, self-timed systems. Trends in VLSI development. Physical limits. Tradeoffs in custom-design, standard cells, gate arrays. VLSI design tools.",250
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Graduate survey of contemporary computer organizations covering: early systems, CPU design, instruction sets, control, processors, busses, ALU, memory, I/O interfaces, connection networks, virtual memory, pipelined computers, multiprocessors, and case studies. Term paper or project is required. ",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Graduate survey of contemporary computer organizations covering: early systems, CPU design, instruction sets, control, processors, busses, ALU, memory, I/O interfaces, connection networks, virtual memory, pipelined computers, multiprocessors, and case studies. Term paper or project is required.",4,"COMPSCI Graduate survey of contemporary computer organizations covering: early systems, CPU design, instruction sets, control, processors, busses, ALU, memory, I/O interfaces, connection networks, virtual memory, pipelined computers, multiprocessors, and case studies. Term paper or project is required.",252A
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"The design, implementation, and evaluation of user interfaces. User-centered design and task analysis. Conceptual models and interface metaphors. Usability inspection and evaluation methods. Analysis of user study data. Input methods (keyboard, pointing, touch, tangible) and input models. Visual design principles. Interface prototyping and implementation methodologies and tools. Students will develop a user interface for a specific task and target user group in teams.",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"The design, implementation, and evaluation of user interfaces. User-centered design and task analysis. Conceptual models and interface metaphors. Usability inspection and evaluation methods. Analysis of user study data. Input methods (keyboard, pointing, touch, tangible) and input models. Visual design principles. Interface prototyping and implementation methodologies and tools. Students will develop a user interface for a specific task and target user group in teams.",4,"COMPSCI The design, implementation, and evaluation of user interfaces. User-centered design and task analysis. Conceptual models and interface metaphors. Usability inspection and evaluation methods. Analysis of user study data. Input methods (keyboard, pointing, touch, tangible) and input models. Visual design principles. Interface prototyping and implementation methodologies and tools. Students will develop a user interface for a specific task and target user group in teams.",260A
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"This course is a broad introduction to conducting research in Human-Computer Interaction. Students will become familiar with seminal and recent literature; learn to review and critique research papers; re-implement and evaluate important existing systems; and gain experience in conducting research. Topics include input devices, computer-supported cooperative work, crowdsourcing, design tools, evaluation methods, search and mobile interfaces, usable security, help and tutorial systems. ",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"This course is a broad introduction to conducting research in Human-Computer Interaction. Students will become familiar with seminal and recent literature; learn to review and critique research papers; re-implement and evaluate important existing systems; and gain experience in conducting research. Topics include input devices, computer-supported cooperative work, crowdsourcing, design tools, evaluation methods, search and mobile interfaces, usable security, help and tutorial systems.",3,"COMPSCI This course is a broad introduction to conducting research in Human-Computer Interaction. Students will become familiar with seminal and recent literature; learn to review and critique research papers; re-implement and evaluate important existing systems; and gain experience in conducting research. Topics include input devices, computer-supported cooperative work, crowdsourcing, design tools, evaluation methods, search and mobile interfaces, usable security, help and tutorial systems.",260B
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Graduate survey of modern topics in computer security, including protection, access control, distributed access security, firewalls, secure coding practices, safe languages, mobile code, and case studies from real-world systems. May also cover cryptographic protocols, privacy and anonymity, and/or other topics as time permits. ",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Graduate survey of modern topics in computer security, including protection, access control, distributed access security, firewalls, secure coding practices, safe languages, mobile code, and case studies from real-world systems. May also cover cryptographic protocols, privacy and anonymity, and/or other topics as time permits.",3,"COMPSCI Graduate survey of modern topics in computer security, including protection, access control, distributed access security, firewalls, secure coding practices, safe languages, mobile code, and case studies from real-world systems. May also cover cryptographic protocols, privacy and anonymity, and/or other topics as time permits.",261
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,Develops a thorough grounding in Internet and network security suitable for those interested in conducting research in the area or those more broadly interested in security or networking. Potential topics include denial-of-service; capabilities; network intrusion detection/prevention; worms; forensics; scanning; traffic analysis; legal issues; web attacks; anonymity; wireless and networked devices; honeypots; botnets; scams; underground economy; attacker infrastructure; research pitfalls. ,UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,Develops a thorough grounding in Internet and network security suitable for those interested in conducting research in the area or those more broadly interested in security or networking. Potential topics include denial-of-service; capabilities; network intrusion detection/prevention; worms; forensics; scanning; traffic analysis; legal issues; web attacks; anonymity; wireless and networked devices; honeypots; botnets; scams; underground economy; attacker infrastructure; research pitfalls.,4,COMPSCI Develops a thorough grounding in Internet and network security suitable for those interested in conducting research in the area or those more broadly interested in security or networking. Potential topics include denial-of-service; capabilities; network intrusion detection/prevention; worms; forensics; scanning; traffic analysis; legal issues; web attacks; anonymity; wireless and networked devices; honeypots; botnets; scams; underground economy; attacker infrastructure; research pitfalls.,261N
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Graduate survey of systems for managing computation and information, covering a breadth of topics: early systems; volatile memory management, including virtual memory and buffer management; persistent memory systems, including both file systems and transactional storage managers; storage metadata, physical vs. logical naming, schemas, process scheduling, threading and concurrency control; system support for networking, including remote procedure calls, transactional RPC, TCP, and active messages; security infrastructure; extensible systems and APIs; performance analysis and engineering of large software systems. Homework assignments, exam, and term paper or project required.",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Graduate survey of systems for managing computation and information, covering a breadth of topics: early systems; volatile memory management, including virtual memory and buffer management; persistent memory systems, including both file systems and transactional storage managers; storage metadata, physical vs. logical naming, schemas, process scheduling, threading and concurrency control; system support for networking, including remote procedure calls, transactional RPC, TCP, and active messages; security infrastructure; extensible systems and APIs; performance analysis and engineering of large software systems. Homework assignments, exam, and term paper or project required.",4,"COMPSCI Graduate survey of systems for managing computation and information, covering a breadth of topics: early systems; volatile memory management, including virtual memory and buffer management; persistent memory systems, including both file systems and transactional storage managers; storage metadata, physical vs. logical naming, schemas, process scheduling, threading and concurrency control; system support for networking, including remote procedure calls, transactional RPC, TCP, and active messages; security infrastructure; extensible systems and APIs; performance analysis and engineering of large software systems. Homework assignments, exam, and term paper or project required.",262A
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Continued graduate survey of large-scale systems for managing information and computation. Topics include basic performance measurement; extensibility, with attention to protection, security, and management of abstract data types; index structures, including support for concurrency and recovery; parallelism, including parallel architectures, query processing and scheduling; distributed data management, including distributed and mobile file systems and databases; distributed caching; large-scale data analysis and search. Homework assignments, exam, and term paper or project required. ",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Continued graduate survey of large-scale systems for managing information and computation. Topics include basic performance measurement; extensibility, with attention to protection, security, and management of abstract data types; index structures, including support for concurrency and recovery; parallelism, including parallel architectures, query processing and scheduling; distributed data management, including distributed and mobile file systems and databases; distributed caching; large-scale data analysis and search. Homework assignments, exam, and term paper or project required.",3,"COMPSCI Continued graduate survey of large-scale systems for managing information and computation. Topics include basic performance measurement; extensibility, with attention to protection, security, and management of abstract data types; index structures, including support for concurrency and recovery; parallelism, including parallel architectures, query processing and scheduling; distributed data management, including distributed and mobile file systems and databases; distributed caching; large-scale data analysis and search. Homework assignments, exam, and term paper or project required.",262B
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Selected topics from: analysis, comparison, and design of programming languages, formal description of syntax and semantics, advanced programming techniques, structured programming, debugging, verification of programs and compilers, and proofs of correctness. ",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Selected topics from: analysis, comparison, and design of programming languages, formal description of syntax and semantics, advanced programming techniques, structured programming, debugging, verification of programs and compilers, and proofs of correctness.",3,"COMPSCI Selected topics from: analysis, comparison, and design of programming languages, formal description of syntax and semantics, advanced programming techniques, structured programming, debugging, verification of programs and compilers, and proofs of correctness.",263
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Compiler construction. Lexical analysis, syntax analysis. Semantic analysis code generation and optimization. Storage management. Run-time organization. ",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Compiler construction. Lexical analysis, syntax analysis. Semantic analysis code generation and optimization. Storage management. Run-time organization.",4,"COMPSCI Compiler construction. Lexical analysis, syntax analysis. Semantic analysis code generation and optimization. Storage management. Run-time organization.",264
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,Table-driven and retargetable code generators. Register management. Flow analysis and global optimization methods. Code optimization for advanced languages and architectures. Local code improvement. Optimization by program transformation. Selected additional topics. A term paper or project is required. ,UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,Table-driven and retargetable code generators. Register management. Flow analysis and global optimization methods. Code optimization for advanced languages and architectures. Local code improvement. Optimization by program transformation. Selected additional topics. A term paper or project is required.,3,COMPSCI Table-driven and retargetable code generators. Register management. Flow analysis and global optimization methods. Code optimization for advanced languages and architectures. Local code improvement. Optimization by program transformation. Selected additional topics. A term paper or project is required.,265
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Distributed systems, their notivations, applications, and organization. The network component. Network architectures. Local and long-haul networks, technologies, and topologies. Data link, network, and transport protocols. Point-to-point and broadcast networks. Routing and congestion control. Higher-level protocols. Naming. Internetworking. Examples and case studies. ",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Distributed systems, their notivations, applications, and organization. The network component. Network architectures. Local and long-haul networks, technologies, and topologies. Data link, network, and transport protocols. Point-to-point and broadcast networks. Routing and congestion control. Higher-level protocols. Naming. Internetworking. Examples and case studies.",3,"COMPSCI Distributed systems, their notivations, applications, and organization. The network component. Network architectures. Local and long-haul networks, technologies, and topologies. Data link, network, and transport protocols. Point-to-point and broadcast networks. Routing and congestion control. Higher-level protocols. Naming. Internetworking. Examples and case studies.",268
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Design and analysis of efficient algorithms for combinatorial problems. Network flow theory, matching theory, matroid theory; augmenting-path algorithms; branch-and-bound algorithms; data structure techniques for efficient implementation of combinatorial algorithms; analysis of data structures; applications of data structure techniques to sorting, searching, and geometric problems. ",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Design and analysis of efficient algorithms for combinatorial problems. Network flow theory, matching theory, matroid theory; augmenting-path algorithms; branch-and-bound algorithms; data structure techniques for efficient implementation of combinatorial algorithms; analysis of data structures; applications of data structure techniques to sorting, searching, and geometric problems.",3,"COMPSCI Design and analysis of efficient algorithms for combinatorial problems. Network flow theory, matching theory, matroid theory; augmenting-path algorithms; branch-and-bound algorithms; data structure techniques for efficient implementation of combinatorial algorithms; analysis of data structures; applications of data structure techniques to sorting, searching, and geometric problems.",270
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Computational applications of randomness and computational theories of randomness. Approximate counting and uniform generation of combinatorial objects, rapid convergence of random walks on expander graphs, explicit construction of expander graphs, randomized reductions, Kolmogorov complexity, pseudo-random number generation, semi-random sources.",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Computational applications of randomness and computational theories of randomness. Approximate counting and uniform generation of combinatorial objects, rapid convergence of random walks on expander graphs, explicit construction of expander graphs, randomized reductions, Kolmogorov complexity, pseudo-random number generation, semi-random sources.",3,"COMPSCI Computational applications of randomness and computational theories of randomness. Approximate counting and uniform generation of combinatorial objects, rapid convergence of random walks on expander graphs, explicit construction of expander graphs, randomized reductions, Kolmogorov complexity, pseudo-random number generation, semi-random sources.",271
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"This course introduces students to the mathematical foundation of learning in the presence of strategic and societal agency. This is a theory-oriented course that will draw from the statistical and computational foundations of machine learning, computer science, and economics. As a research-oriented course, a range of advanced topics will be explored to paint a comprehensivepicture of classical and modern approaches to learning for the purpose of decision making.These topics include foundations of learning, foundations of algorithmic game theory, cooperative and non-cooperative games, equilibria and dynamics, learning in games, information asymmetries, mechanism design, and learning with incentives. ",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"This course introduces students to the mathematical foundation of learning in the presence of strategic and societal agency. This is a theory-oriented course that will draw from the statistical and computational foundations of machine learning, computer science, and economics. As a research-oriented course, a range of advanced topics will be explored to paint a comprehensivepicture of classical and modern approaches to learning for the purpose of decision making.These topics include foundations of learning, foundations of algorithmic game theory, cooperative and non-cooperative games, equilibria and dynamics, learning in games, information asymmetries, mechanism design, and learning with incentives.",4,"COMPSCI This course introduces students to the mathematical foundation of learning in the presence of strategic and societal agency. This is a theory-oriented course that will draw from the statistical and computational foundations of machine learning, computer science, and economics. As a research-oriented course, a range of advanced topics will be explored to paint a comprehensivepicture of classical and modern approaches to learning for the purpose of decision making.These topics include foundations of learning, foundations of algorithmic game theory, cooperative and non-cooperative games, equilibria and dynamics, learning in games, information asymmetries, mechanism design, and learning with incentives.",272
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"<Formerly 292T>. Constructive problems in computational geometry: convex hulls, triangulations, Voronoi diagrams, arrangements of hyperplanes; relationships among these problems. Search problems: advanced data structures; subdivision search; various kinds of range searches. Models of computation; lower bounds. ",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"<Formerly 292T>. Constructive problems in computational geometry: convex hulls, triangulations, Voronoi diagrams, arrangements of hyperplanes; relationships among these problems. Search problems: advanced data structures; subdivision search; various kinds of range searches. Models of computation; lower bounds.",3,"COMPSCI <Formerly 292T>. Constructive problems in computational geometry: convex hulls, triangulations, Voronoi diagrams, arrangements of hyperplanes; relationships among these problems. Search problems: advanced data structures; subdivision search; various kinds of range searches. Models of computation; lower bounds.",274
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Graduate survey of modern topics on theory, foundations, and applications of modern cryptography. One-way functions; pseudorandomness; encryption; authentication; public-key cryptosystems; notions of security. May also cover zero-knowledge proofs, multi-party cryptographic protocols, practical applications, and/or other topics, as time permits. ",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Graduate survey of modern topics on theory, foundations, and applications of modern cryptography. One-way functions; pseudorandomness; encryption; authentication; public-key cryptosystems; notions of security. May also cover zero-knowledge proofs, multi-party cryptographic protocols, practical applications, and/or other topics, as time permits.",3,"COMPSCI Graduate survey of modern topics on theory, foundations, and applications of modern cryptography. One-way functions; pseudorandomness; encryption; authentication; public-key cryptosystems; notions of security. May also cover zero-knowledge proofs, multi-party cryptographic protocols, practical applications, and/or other topics, as time permits.",276
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,Properties of abstract complexity measures; Determinism vs. nondeterminism; time vs. space; complexity hierarchies; aspects of the P-NP question; relative power of various abstract machines. ,UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,Properties of abstract complexity measures; Determinism vs. nondeterminism; time vs. space; complexity hierarchies; aspects of the P-NP question; relative power of various abstract machines.,3,COMPSCI Properties of abstract complexity measures; Determinism vs. nondeterminism; time vs. space; complexity hierarchies; aspects of the P-NP question; relative power of various abstract machines.,278
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"This course introduces students to computing with visual data (images and video). We will cover acquisition, representation, and manipulation of visual information from digital photographs (image processing), image analysis and visual understanding (computer vision), and image synthesis (computational photography). Key algorithms will be presented, ranging from classical to contemporary, with an emphasis on using these techniques to build practical systems. The hands-on emphasis will be reflected in the programming assignments, where students will acquire their own images and develop, largely from  scratch, image analysis and synthesis tools for real-world applications.",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"This course introduces students to computing with visual data (images and video). We will cover acquisition, representation, and manipulation of visual information from digital photographs (image processing), image analysis and visual understanding (computer vision), and image synthesis (computational photography). Key algorithms will be presented, ranging from classical to contemporary, with an emphasis on using these techniques to build practical systems. The hands-on emphasis will be reflected in the programming assignments, where students will acquire their own images and develop, largely from  scratch, image analysis and synthesis tools for real-world applications.",4,"COMPSCI This course introduces students to computing with visual data (images and video). We will cover acquisition, representation, and manipulation of visual information from digital photographs (image processing), image analysis and visual understanding (computer vision), and image synthesis (computational photography). Key algorithms will be presented, ranging from classical to contemporary, with an emphasis on using these techniques to build practical systems. The hands-on emphasis will be reflected in the programming assignments, where students will acquire their own images and develop, largely from  scratch, image analysis and synthesis tools for real-world applications.",280A
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Deep Networks have revolutionized computer vision, language technology, robotics and control. They have growing impact in many other areas of science and engineering. They do not however, follow a closed or compact set of theoretical principles. In Yann Lecun's words they require ""an interplay between intuitive insights, theoretical modeling, practical implementations, empirical studies, and scientific analyses."" This course attempts to cover that ground.",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Deep Networks have revolutionized computer vision, language technology, robotics and control. They have growing impact in many other areas of science and engineering. They do not however, follow a closed or compact set of theoretical principles. In Yann Lecun's words they require ""an interplay between intuitive insights, theoretical modeling, practical implementations, empirical studies, and scientific analyses."" This course attempts to cover that ground.",4,"COMPSCI Deep Networks have revolutionized computer vision, language technology, robotics and control. They have growing impact in many other areas of science and engineering. They do not however, follow a closed or compact set of theoretical principles. In Yann Lecun's words they require ""an interplay between intuitive insights, theoretical modeling, practical implementations, empirical studies, and scientific analyses."" This course attempts to cover that ground.",282A
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Techniques of modeling objects for the purpose of computer rendering: boundary representations, constructive solids geometry, hierarchical scene descriptions. Mathematical techniques for curve and surface representation. Basic elements of a computer graphics rendering pipeline; architecture of modern graphics display devices. Geometrical transformations such as rotation, scaling, translation, and their matrix representations. Homogeneous coordinates, projective and perspective transformations. ",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Techniques of modeling objects for the purpose of computer rendering: boundary representations, constructive solids geometry, hierarchical scene descriptions. Mathematical techniques for curve and surface representation. Basic elements of a computer graphics rendering pipeline; architecture of modern graphics display devices. Geometrical transformations such as rotation, scaling, translation, and their matrix representations. Homogeneous coordinates, projective and perspective transformations.",4,"COMPSCI Techniques of modeling objects for the purpose of computer rendering: boundary representations, constructive solids geometry, hierarchical scene descriptions. Mathematical techniques for curve and surface representation. Basic elements of a computer graphics rendering pipeline; architecture of modern graphics display devices. Geometrical transformations such as rotation, scaling, translation, and their matrix representations. Homogeneous coordinates, projective and perspective transformations.",284A
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"This course provides a graduate-level introduction to advanced computer graphics algorithms and techniques. Students should already be familiar with basic concepts such as transformations, scan-conversion, scene graphs, shading, and light transport. Topics covered in this course include global illumination, mesh processing, subdivision surfaces, basic differential geometry, physically based animation, inverse kinematics, imaging and computational photography, and precomputed light transport. ",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"This course provides a graduate-level introduction to advanced computer graphics algorithms and techniques. Students should already be familiar with basic concepts such as transformations, scan-conversion, scene graphs, shading, and light transport. Topics covered in this course include global illumination, mesh processing, subdivision surfaces, basic differential geometry, physically based animation, inverse kinematics, imaging and computational photography, and precomputed light transport.",4,"COMPSCI This course provides a graduate-level introduction to advanced computer graphics algorithms and techniques. Students should already be familiar with basic concepts such as transformations, scan-conversion, scene graphs, shading, and light transport. Topics covered in this course include global illumination, mesh processing, subdivision surfaces, basic differential geometry, physically based animation, inverse kinematics, imaging and computational photography, and precomputed light transport.",284B
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Intersection of control, reinforcement learning, and deep learning. Deep learning methods, which train large parametric function approximators, achieve excellent results on problems that require reasoning about unstructured real-world situations (e.g., computer vision, speech recognition, NLP). Advanced treatment of the reinforcement learning formalism, the most critical model-free reinforcement learning algorithms (policy gradients, value function and Q-function learning, and actor-critic), a discussion of model-based reinforcement learning algorithms, an overview of imitation learning, and a range of advanced topics (e.g., exploration, model-based learning with video prediction, transfer learning, multi-task learning, and meta-learning).",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Intersection of control, reinforcement learning, and deep learning. Deep learning methods, which train large parametric function approximators, achieve excellent results on problems that require reasoning about unstructured real-world situations (e.g., computer vision, speech recognition, NLP). Advanced treatment of the reinforcement learning formalism, the most critical model-free reinforcement learning algorithms (policy gradients, value function and Q-function learning, and actor-critic), a discussion of model-based reinforcement learning algorithms, an overview of imitation learning, and a range of advanced topics (e.g., exploration, model-based learning with video prediction, transfer learning, multi-task learning, and meta-learning).",3,"COMPSCI Intersection of control, reinforcement learning, and deep learning. Deep learning methods, which train large parametric function approximators, achieve excellent results on problems that require reasoning about unstructured real-world situations (e.g., computer vision, speech recognition, NLP). Advanced treatment of the reinforcement learning formalism, the most critical model-free reinforcement learning algorithms (policy gradients, value function and Q-function learning, and actor-critic), a discussion of model-based reinforcement learning algorithms, an overview of imitation learning, and a range of advanced topics (e.g., exploration, model-based learning with video prediction, transfer learning, multi-task learning, and meta-learning).",285
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Implementation of data base systems on modern hardware systems. Considerations concerning operating system design, including buffering, page size, prefetching, etc. Query processing algorithms, design of crash recovery and concurrency control systems. Implementation of distributed data bases and data base machines. ",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Implementation of data base systems on modern hardware systems. Considerations concerning operating system design, including buffering, page size, prefetching, etc. Query processing algorithms, design of crash recovery and concurrency control systems. Implementation of distributed data bases and data base machines.",3,"COMPSCI Implementation of data base systems on modern hardware systems. Considerations concerning operating system design, including buffering, page size, prefetching, etc. Query processing algorithms, design of crash recovery and concurrency control systems. Implementation of distributed data bases and data base machines.",286
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Implementation of data base systems on modern hardware systems. Considerations concerning operating system design, including buffering, page size, prefetching, etc. Query processing algorithms, design of crash recovery and concurrency control systems. Implementation of distributed data bases and data base machines. ",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Implementation of data base systems on modern hardware systems. Considerations concerning operating system design, including buffering, page size, prefetching, etc. Query processing algorithms, design of crash recovery and concurrency control systems. Implementation of distributed data bases and data base machines.",3,"COMPSCI Implementation of data base systems on modern hardware systems. Considerations concerning operating system design, including buffering, page size, prefetching, etc. Query processing algorithms, design of crash recovery and concurrency control systems. Implementation of distributed data bases and data base machines.",286B
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Advanced topics related to current research in algorithms and artificial intelligence for robotics. Planning, control, and estimation for realistic robot systems, taking into account: dynamic constraints, control and sensing uncertainty, and non-holonomic motion constraints.",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Advanced topics related to current research in algorithms and artificial intelligence for robotics. Planning, control, and estimation for realistic robot systems, taking into account: dynamic constraints, control and sensing uncertainty, and non-holonomic motion constraints.",3,"COMPSCI Advanced topics related to current research in algorithms and artificial intelligence for robotics. Planning, control, and estimation for realistic robot systems, taking into account: dynamic constraints, control and sensing uncertainty, and non-holonomic motion constraints.",287
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"As robot autonomy advances, it becomes more and more important to develop algorithms that are not solely functional, but also mindful of the end-user. How should the robot move differently when it's moving in the presence of a human? How should it learn from user feedback? How should it assist the user in accomplishing day to day tasks? These are the questions we will investigate in this course.We will contrast existing algorithms in robotics with studies in human-robot interaction, discussing how to tackle interaction challenges in an algorithmic way, with the goal of enabling generalization across robots and tasks. We will also sharpen research skills: giving good talks, experimental design, statistical analysis, literature surveys.",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"As robot autonomy advances, it becomes more and more important to develop algorithms that are not solely functional, but also mindful of the end-user. How should the robot move differently when it's moving in the presence of a human? How should it learn from user feedback? How should it assist the user in accomplishing day to day tasks? These are the questions we will investigate in this course.We will contrast existing algorithms in robotics with studies in human-robot interaction, discussing how to tackle interaction challenges in an algorithmic way, with the goal of enabling generalization across robots and tasks. We will also sharpen research skills: giving good talks, experimental design, statistical analysis, literature surveys.",4,"COMPSCI As robot autonomy advances, it becomes more and more important to develop algorithms that are not solely functional, but also mindful of the end-user. How should the robot move differently when it's moving in the presence of a human? How should it learn from user feedback? How should it assist the user in accomplishing day to day tasks? These are the questions we will investigate in this course.We will contrast existing algorithms in robotics with studies in human-robot interaction, discussing how to tackle interaction challenges in an algorithmic way, with the goal of enabling generalization across robots and tasks. We will also sharpen research skills: giving good talks, experimental design, statistical analysis, literature surveys.",287H
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Methods and models for the analysis of natural (human) language data.  Topics include: language modeling, speech recognition, linguistic analysis (syntactic parsing, semantic analysis, reference resolution, discourse modeling), machine translation, information extraction, question answering, and computational linguistics techniques.",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Methods and models for the analysis of natural (human) language data.  Topics include: language modeling, speech recognition, linguistic analysis (syntactic parsing, semantic analysis, reference resolution, discourse modeling), machine translation, information extraction, question answering, and computational linguistics techniques.",4,"COMPSCI Methods and models for the analysis of natural (human) language data.  Topics include: language modeling, speech recognition, linguistic analysis (syntactic parsing, semantic analysis, reference resolution, discourse modeling), machine translation, information extraction, question answering, and computational linguistics techniques.",288
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"This course provides an introduction to theoretical foundations, algorithms, and methodologies for machine learning, emphasizing the role of probability and optimization and exploring a variety of real-world applications. Students are expected to have a solid foundation in calculus and linear algebra as well as exposure to the basic tools of logic and probability, and should be familiar with at least one modern, high-level programming language. ",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"This course provides an introduction to theoretical foundations, algorithms, and methodologies for machine learning, emphasizing the role of probability and optimization and exploring a variety of real-world applications. Students are expected to have a solid foundation in calculus and linear algebra as well as exposure to the basic tools of logic and probability, and should be familiar with at least one modern, high-level programming language.",4,"COMPSCI This course provides an introduction to theoretical foundations, algorithms, and methodologies for machine learning, emphasizing the role of probability and optimization and exploring a variety of real-world applications. Students are expected to have a solid foundation in calculus and linear algebra as well as exposure to the basic tools of logic and probability, and should be familiar with at least one modern, high-level programming language.",289A
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,Topics will vary from semester to semester. See Computer Science Division announcements.,UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,Topics will vary from semester to semester. See Computer Science Division announcements.,1,COMPSCI Topics will vary from semester to semester. See Computer Science Division announcements.,294
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,Supervised experience in off-campus companies relevant to specific aspects and applications of electrical engineering and/or computer science. Written report required at the end of the semester.,UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,Supervised experience in off-campus companies relevant to specific aspects and applications of electrical engineering and/or computer science. Written report required at the end of the semester.,0,COMPSCI Supervised experience in off-campus companies relevant to specific aspects and applications of electrical engineering and/or computer science. Written report required at the end of the semester.,297
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Advanced study in various subjects through seminars on topics to be selected each year, informal group studies of special problems, group participation in comprehensive design problems, or group research on complete problems for analysis and experimentation.",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Advanced study in various subjects through seminars on topics to be selected each year, informal group studies of special problems, group participation in comprehensive design problems, or group research on complete problems for analysis and experimentation.",1,"COMPSCI Advanced study in various subjects through seminars on topics to be selected each year, informal group studies of special problems, group participation in comprehensive design problems, or group research on complete problems for analysis and experimentation.",298
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,Investigations of problems in computer science.,UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,Investigations of problems in computer science.,1,COMPSCI Investigations of problems in computer science.,299
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Discussion and review of research and practice relating to the teaching of computer science: knowledge organization and misconceptions, curriculum and topic organization, evaluation, collaborative learning, technology use, and administrative issues. As part of a semester-long project to design a computer science course, participants invent and refine a variety of homework and exam activities, and evaluate alternatives for textbooks, grading and other administrative policies, and innovative uses of technology. ",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Discussion and review of research and practice relating to the teaching of computer science: knowledge organization and misconceptions, curriculum and topic organization, evaluation, collaborative learning, technology use, and administrative issues. As part of a semester-long project to design a computer science course, participants invent and refine a variety of homework and exam activities, and evaluate alternatives for textbooks, grading and other administrative policies, and innovative uses of technology.",3,"COMPSCI Discussion and review of research and practice relating to the teaching of computer science: knowledge organization and misconceptions, curriculum and topic organization, evaluation, collaborative learning, technology use, and administrative issues. As part of a semester-long project to design a computer science course, participants invent and refine a variety of homework and exam activities, and evaluate alternatives for textbooks, grading and other administrative policies, and innovative uses of technology.",302
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Computer Science 36 is a seminar for CS Scholars who are concurrently taking CS61A: The Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs. CS Scholars is a cohort-model program to provide support in exploring and potentially declaring a CS major for students with little to no computational background prior to coming to the university.   CS 36 provides an introduction to the CS curriculum at UC Berkeley, and the overall CS landscape in both industry and academiathrough the lens of accessibility and its relevance to diversity. Additionally, CS36 provides technical instruction to review concepts in CS61A, in order to support CS Scholars individual learning and success in the CS61A course.",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Computer Science 36 is a seminar for CS Scholars who are concurrently taking CS61A: The Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs. CS Scholars is a cohort-model program to provide support in exploring and potentially declaring a CS major for students with little to no computational background prior to coming to the university.   CS 36 provides an introduction to the CS curriculum at UC Berkeley, and the overall CS landscape in both industry and academiathrough the lens of accessibility and its relevance to diversity. Additionally, CS36 provides technical instruction to review concepts in CS61A, in order to support CS Scholars individual learning and success in the CS61A course.",2,"COMPSCI Computer Science 36 is a seminar for CS Scholars who are concurrently taking CS61A: The Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs. CS Scholars is a cohort-model program to provide support in exploring and potentially declaring a CS major for students with little to no computational background prior to coming to the university.   CS 36 provides an introduction to the CS curriculum at UC Berkeley, and the overall CS landscape in both industry and academiathrough the lens of accessibility and its relevance to diversity. Additionally, CS36 provides technical instruction to review concepts in CS61A, in order to support CS Scholars individual learning and success in the CS61A course.",36
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"This is a course for aspiring Academic Interns (AIs). It provides pedagogical training and guidance to students by introducing them to the Big Ideas of Teaching and Learning, and how to put them into practice. The course covers what makes a safe learning environment, how students learn, how to guide students toward mastery, and psychosocial factors that can negatively affect even the best students and best teachers. Class covers both theoretical and practical pedagogical aspects of teaching STEM subjectsspecifically Computer Science. An integral feature of the course lies in the weekly AI experience that students perform to practice their teaching skills.",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"This is a course for aspiring Academic Interns (AIs). It provides pedagogical training and guidance to students by introducing them to the Big Ideas of Teaching and Learning, and how to put them into practice. The course covers what makes a safe learning environment, how students learn, how to guide students toward mastery, and psychosocial factors that can negatively affect even the best students and best teachers. Class covers both theoretical and practical pedagogical aspects of teaching STEM subjectsspecifically Computer Science. An integral feature of the course lies in the weekly AI experience that students perform to practice their teaching skills.",2,"COMPSCI This is a course for aspiring Academic Interns (AIs). It provides pedagogical training and guidance to students by introducing them to the Big Ideas of Teaching and Learning, and how to put them into practice. The course covers what makes a safe learning environment, how students learn, how to guide students toward mastery, and psychosocial factors that can negatively affect even the best students and best teachers. Class covers both theoretical and practical pedagogical aspects of teaching STEM subjectsspecifically Computer Science. An integral feature of the course lies in the weekly AI experience that students perform to practice their teaching skills.",365
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"This is a course for aspiring teachers or those who want to instruct with expertise from evidence-based research and proven equity-oriented practices. It provides pedagogical training by introducing the big ideas of teaching and learning, and illustrating how to put them into practice. The course is divided into three sectionsinstructing the individual; a group; and psycho-social factors that affect learning at any level. These sections are designed to enhance any interns, tutors, or TAs teaching skillset. Class is discussion based, and covers theoretical and practical pedagogical aspects to teaching in STEM. An integral feature of the course involves providing weekly tutoring sessions.",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"This is a course for aspiring teachers or those who want to instruct with expertise from evidence-based research and proven equity-oriented practices. It provides pedagogical training by introducing the big ideas of teaching and learning, and illustrating how to put them into practice. The course is divided into three sectionsinstructing the individual; a group; and psycho-social factors that affect learning at any level. These sections are designed to enhance any interns, tutors, or TAs teaching skillset. Class is discussion based, and covers theoretical and practical pedagogical aspects to teaching in STEM. An integral feature of the course involves providing weekly tutoring sessions.",3,"COMPSCI This is a course for aspiring teachers or those who want to instruct with expertise from evidence-based research and proven equity-oriented practices. It provides pedagogical training by introducing the big ideas of teaching and learning, and illustrating how to put them into practice. The course is divided into three sectionsinstructing the individual; a group; and psycho-social factors that affect learning at any level. These sections are designed to enhance any interns, tutors, or TAs teaching skillset. Class is discussion based, and covers theoretical and practical pedagogical aspects to teaching in STEM. An integral feature of the course involves providing weekly tutoring sessions.",370
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Discussion and practice of techniques for effective teaching, focusing on issues most relevant to teaching assistants in computer science courses. ",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Discussion and practice of techniques for effective teaching, focusing on issues most relevant to teaching assistants in computer science courses.",2,"COMPSCI Discussion and practice of techniques for effective teaching, focusing on issues most relevant to teaching assistants in computer science courses.",375
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Freshman and sophomore seminars offer lower division students the opportunity to explore an intellectual topic with a faculty member and a group of peers in a small-seminar setting. These seminars are offered in all campus departments; topics vary from department to department and from semester to semester. Enrollment limits are set by the faculty, but the suggested limit is 25. ",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Freshman and sophomore seminars offer lower division students the opportunity to explore an intellectual topic with a faculty member and a group of peers in a small-seminar setting. These seminars are offered in all campus departments; topics vary from department to department and from semester to semester. Enrollment limits are set by the faculty, but the suggested limit is 25.",1.5,"COMPSCI Freshman and sophomore seminars offer lower division students the opportunity to explore an intellectual topic with a faculty member and a group of peers in a small-seminar setting. These seminars are offered in all campus departments; topics vary from department to department and from semester to semester. Enrollment limits are set by the faculty, but the suggested limit is 25.",39
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Discussion, problem review and development, guidance of computer science laboratory sections, course development, supervised practice teaching.",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Discussion, problem review and development, guidance of computer science laboratory sections, course development, supervised practice teaching.",1,"COMPSCI Discussion, problem review and development, guidance of computer science laboratory sections, course development, supervised practice teaching.",399
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Implementation of generic operations. Streams and iterators. Implementation techniques for supporting functional, object-oriented, and constraint-based programming in the Scheme programming language. Together with 9D, 47A constitutes an abbreviated, self-paced version of 61A for students who have already taken a course equivalent to 61B. ",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Implementation of generic operations. Streams and iterators. Implementation techniques for supporting functional, object-oriented, and constraint-based programming in the Scheme programming language. Together with 9D, 47A constitutes an abbreviated, self-paced version of 61A for students who have already taken a course equivalent to 61B.",1,"COMPSCI Implementation of generic operations. Streams and iterators. Implementation techniques for supporting functional, object-oriented, and constraint-based programming in the Scheme programming language. Together with 9D, 47A constitutes an abbreviated, self-paced version of 61A for students who have already taken a course equivalent to 61B.",47A
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Iterators. Hashing, applied to strings and multi-dimensional structures. Heaps. Storage management. Design and implementation of a program containing hundreds of lines of code. Students who have completed a portion of the subject matter of COMPSCI 61B may, with consent of instructor, complete COMPSCI 61B in this self-paced course.  Please note that students in the College of Engineering are required to receive additional permission from the College as well as the EECS department for the course to count in place of COMPSCI 61B.",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Iterators. Hashing, applied to strings and multi-dimensional structures. Heaps. Storage management. Design and implementation of a program containing hundreds of lines of code. Students who have completed a portion of the subject matter of COMPSCI 61B may, with consent of instructor, complete COMPSCI 61B in this self-paced course.  Please note that students in the College of Engineering are required to receive additional permission from the College as well as the EECS department for the course to count in place of COMPSCI 61B.",1,"COMPSCI Iterators. Hashing, applied to strings and multi-dimensional structures. Heaps. Storage management. Design and implementation of a program containing hundreds of lines of code. Students who have completed a portion of the subject matter of COMPSCI 61B may, with consent of instructor, complete COMPSCI 61B in this self-paced course.  Please note that students in the College of Engineering are required to receive additional permission from the College as well as the EECS department for the course to count in place of COMPSCI 61B.",47B
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"MIPS instruction set simulation. The assembly and linking process. Caches and virtual memory. Pipelined computer organization. Students with sufficient partial credit in 61C may, with consent of instructor, complete the credit in this self-paced course. ",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"MIPS instruction set simulation. The assembly and linking process. Caches and virtual memory. Pipelined computer organization. Students with sufficient partial credit in 61C may, with consent of instructor, complete the credit in this self-paced course.",1,"COMPSCI MIPS instruction set simulation. The assembly and linking process. Caches and virtual memory. Pipelined computer organization. Students with sufficient partial credit in 61C may, with consent of instructor, complete the credit in this self-paced course.",47C
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Individual study in consultation with the major field adviser, intended to provide an opportunity for qualified students to prepare themselves for the various examinations required of candidates for the Ph.D. (and other doctoral degrees).",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Individual study in consultation with the major field adviser, intended to provide an opportunity for qualified students to prepare themselves for the various examinations required of candidates for the Ph.D. (and other doctoral degrees).",1,"COMPSCI Individual study in consultation with the major field adviser, intended to provide an opportunity for qualified students to prepare themselves for the various examinations required of candidates for the Ph.D. (and other doctoral degrees).",602
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"An introduction to programming and computer science focused on abstraction techniques as means to manage program complexity. Techniques include procedural abstraction; control abstraction using recursion, higher-order functions, generators, and streams; data abstraction using interfaces, objects, classes, and generic operators; and language abstraction using interpreters and macros. The course exposes students to programming paradigms, including functional, object-oriented, and declarative approaches. It includes an introduction to asymptotic analysis of algorithms. There are several significant programming projects.",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"An introduction to programming and computer science focused on abstraction techniques as means to manage program complexity. Techniques include procedural abstraction; control abstraction using recursion, higher-order functions, generators, and streams; data abstraction using interfaces, objects, classes, and generic operators; and language abstraction using interpreters and macros. The course exposes students to programming paradigms, including functional, object-oriented, and declarative approaches. It includes an introduction to asymptotic analysis of algorithms. There are several significant programming projects.",4,"COMPSCI An introduction to programming and computer science focused on abstraction techniques as means to manage program complexity. Techniques include procedural abstraction; control abstraction using recursion, higher-order functions, generators, and streams; data abstraction using interfaces, objects, classes, and generic operators; and language abstraction using interpreters and macros. The course exposes students to programming paradigms, including functional, object-oriented, and declarative approaches. It includes an introduction to asymptotic analysis of algorithms. There are several significant programming projects.",61A
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Fundamental dynamic data structures, including linear lists, queues, trees, and other linked structures; arrays strings, and hash tables. Storage management. Elementary principles of software engineering. Abstract data types. Algorithms for sorting and searching. Introduction to the Java programming language. ",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Fundamental dynamic data structures, including linear lists, queues, trees, and other linked structures; arrays strings, and hash tables. Storage management. Elementary principles of software engineering. Abstract data types. Algorithms for sorting and searching. Introduction to the Java programming language.",4,"COMPSCI Fundamental dynamic data structures, including linear lists, queues, trees, and other linked structures; arrays strings, and hash tables. Storage management. Elementary principles of software engineering. Abstract data types. Algorithms for sorting and searching. Introduction to the Java programming language.",61B
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"The same material as in 61B, but in a laboratory-based format. ",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"The same material as in 61B, but in a laboratory-based format.",4,"COMPSCI The same material as in 61B, but in a laboratory-based format.",61BL
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"The internal organization and operation of digital computers. Machine architecture, support for high-level languages (logic, arithmetic, instruction sequencing) and operating systems (I/O, interrupts, memory management, process switching). Elements of computer logic design. Tradeoffs involved in fundamental architectural design decisions.",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"The internal organization and operation of digital computers. Machine architecture, support for high-level languages (logic, arithmetic, instruction sequencing) and operating systems (I/O, interrupts, memory management, process switching). Elements of computer logic design. Tradeoffs involved in fundamental architectural design decisions.",4,"COMPSCI The internal organization and operation of digital computers. Machine architecture, support for high-level languages (logic, arithmetic, instruction sequencing) and operating systems (I/O, interrupts, memory management, process switching). Elements of computer logic design. Tradeoffs involved in fundamental architectural design decisions.",61C
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Logic, infinity, and induction; applications include undecidability and stable marriage problem. Modular arithmetic and GCDs; applications include primality testing and cryptography. Polynomials; examples include error correcting codes and interpolation. Probability including sample spaces, independence, random variables, law of large numbers; examples include load balancing, existence arguments, Bayesian inference.",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Logic, infinity, and induction; applications include undecidability and stable marriage problem. Modular arithmetic and GCDs; applications include primality testing and cryptography. Polynomials; examples include error correcting codes and interpolation. Probability including sample spaces, independence, random variables, law of large numbers; examples include load balancing, existence arguments, Bayesian inference.",4,"COMPSCI Logic, infinity, and induction; applications include undecidability and stable marriage problem. Modular arithmetic and GCDs; applications include primality testing and cryptography. Polynomials; examples include error correcting codes and interpolation. Probability including sample spaces, independence, random variables, law of large numbers; examples include load balancing, existence arguments, Bayesian inference.",70
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Sophomore seminars are small interactive courses offered by faculty members in departments all across the campus. Sophomore seminars offer opportunity for close, regular intellectual contact between faculty members and students in the crucial second year. The topics vary from department to department and semester to semester. Enrollment limited to 15 sophomores. ",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Sophomore seminars are small interactive courses offered by faculty members in departments all across the campus. Sophomore seminars offer opportunity for close, regular intellectual contact between faculty members and students in the crucial second year. The topics vary from department to department and semester to semester. Enrollment limited to 15 sophomores.",1,"COMPSCI Sophomore seminars are small interactive courses offered by faculty members in departments all across the campus. Sophomore seminars offer opportunity for close, regular intellectual contact between faculty members and students in the crucial second year. The topics vary from department to department and semester to semester. Enrollment limited to 15 sophomores.",84
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Development of Computer Science topics appearing in Foundations of Data Science (C8); expands computational concepts and techniques of abstraction. Understanding the structures that underlie the programs, algorithms, and languages used in data science and elsewhere.   Mastery of a particular programming language while studying general techniques for managing program complexity, e.g., functional, object-oriented, and declarative programming. Provides practical experience with composing larger systems through several significant programming projects.",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Development of Computer Science topics appearing in Foundations of Data Science (C8); expands computational concepts and techniques of abstraction. Understanding the structures that underlie the programs, algorithms, and languages used in data science and elsewhere.   Mastery of a particular programming language while studying general techniques for managing program complexity, e.g., functional, object-oriented, and declarative programming. Provides practical experience with composing larger systems through several significant programming projects.",3,"COMPSCI Development of Computer Science topics appearing in Foundations of Data Science (C8); expands computational concepts and techniques of abstraction. Understanding the structures that underlie the programs, algorithms, and languages used in data science and elsewhere.   Mastery of a particular programming language while studying general techniques for managing program complexity, e.g., functional, object-oriented, and declarative programming. Provides practical experience with composing larger systems through several significant programming projects.",88
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"In this course, students will explore the data science lifecycle, including question formulation, data collection and cleaning, exploratory data analysis and visualization, statistical inference and prediction, and decision-making. This class will focus on quantitative critical thinking and key principles and techniques needed to carry out this cycle. These include languages for transforming, querying and analyzing data; algorithms for machine learning methods including regression, classification and clustering; principles behind creating informative data visualizations; statistical concepts of measurement error and prediction; and techniques for scalable data processing.",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"In this course, students will explore the data science lifecycle, including question formulation, data collection and cleaning, exploratory data analysis and visualization, statistical inference and prediction, and decision-making. This class will focus on quantitative critical thinking and key principles and techniques needed to carry out this cycle. These include languages for transforming, querying and analyzing data; algorithms for machine learning methods including regression, classification and clustering; principles behind creating informative data visualizations; statistical concepts of measurement error and prediction; and techniques for scalable data processing.",4,"COMPSCI In this course, students will explore the data science lifecycle, including question formulation, data collection and cleaning, exploratory data analysis and visualization, statistical inference and prediction, and decision-making. This class will focus on quantitative critical thinking and key principles and techniques needed to carry out this cycle. These include languages for transforming, querying and analyzing data; algorithms for machine learning methods including regression, classification and clustering; principles behind creating informative data visualizations; statistical concepts of measurement error and prediction; and techniques for scalable data processing.",C100
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"This course will provide familiarity with algorithms and probabilistic models that arise in various computational biology applications, such as suffix trees, suffix arrays, pattern matching, repeat finding, sequence alignment, phylogenetics, hidden Markov models, gene finding, motif finding, linear/logistic regression, random forests, convolutional neural networks, genome-wide association studies, pathogenicity prediction, and sequence-to-epigenome prediction.",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"This course will provide familiarity with algorithms and probabilistic models that arise in various computational biology applications, such as suffix trees, suffix arrays, pattern matching, repeat finding, sequence alignment, phylogenetics, hidden Markov models, gene finding, motif finding, linear/logistic regression, random forests, convolutional neural networks, genome-wide association studies, pathogenicity prediction, and sequence-to-epigenome prediction.",4,"COMPSCI This course will provide familiarity with algorithms and probabilistic models that arise in various computational biology applications, such as suffix trees, suffix arrays, pattern matching, repeat finding, sequence alignment, phylogenetics, hidden Markov models, gene finding, motif finding, linear/logistic regression, random forests, convolutional neural networks, genome-wide association studies, pathogenicity prediction, and sequence-to-epigenome prediction.",C176
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"The class provides an introduction to algorithmic questions in economic design. The class will cover problems of public goods and social choice, as well as allocative questions and private consumption. The focus is on normative questions: From the perspective of social goals, these are efficiency, fairness, and equity. In terms of private goals, the focus is on revenue maximization. The course will cover voting, fair division, pricing and market mechanisms. There is an emphasis on the algorithmic questions that arise naturally in economic design.",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"The class provides an introduction to algorithmic questions in economic design. The class will cover problems of public goods and social choice, as well as allocative questions and private consumption. The focus is on normative questions: From the perspective of social goals, these are efficiency, fairness, and equity. In terms of private goals, the focus is on revenue maximization. The course will cover voting, fair division, pricing and market mechanisms. There is an emphasis on the algorithmic questions that arise naturally in economic design.",4,"COMPSCI The class provides an introduction to algorithmic questions in economic design. The class will cover problems of public goods and social choice, as well as allocative questions and private consumption. The focus is on normative questions: From the perspective of social goals, these are efficiency, fairness, and equity. In terms of private goals, the focus is on revenue maximization. The course will cover voting, fair division, pricing and market mechanisms. There is an emphasis on the algorithmic questions that arise naturally in economic design.",C177
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Deep Networks have revolutionized computer vision, language technology, robotics and control. They have growing impact in many other areas of science and engineering. They do not however, follow a closed or compact set of theoretical principles. In Yann Lecun's words they require ""an interplay between intuitive insights, theoretical modeling, practical implementations, empirical studies, and scientific analyses."" This course attempts to cover that ground.",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Deep Networks have revolutionized computer vision, language technology, robotics and control. They have growing impact in many other areas of science and engineering. They do not however, follow a closed or compact set of theoretical principles. In Yann Lecun's words they require ""an interplay between intuitive insights, theoretical modeling, practical implementations, empirical studies, and scientific analyses."" This course attempts to cover that ground.",4,"COMPSCI Deep Networks have revolutionized computer vision, language technology, robotics and control. They have growing impact in many other areas of science and engineering. They do not however, follow a closed or compact set of theoretical principles. In Yann Lecun's words they require ""an interplay between intuitive insights, theoretical modeling, practical implementations, empirical studies, and scientific analyses."" This course attempts to cover that ground.",C182
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"This course will cover the principles and practices of managing data at scale, with a focus on use cases in data analysis and machine learning. We will cover the entire life cycle of data management and science, ranging from data preparation to exploration, visualization and analysis, to machine learning and collaboration, with a focus on ensuring reliable, scalable operationalization.",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"This course will cover the principles and practices of managing data at scale, with a focus on use cases in data analysis and machine learning. We will cover the entire life cycle of data management and science, ranging from data preparation to exploration, visualization and analysis, to machine learning and collaboration, with a focus on ensuring reliable, scalable operationalization.",4,"COMPSCI This course will cover the principles and practices of managing data at scale, with a focus on use cases in data analysis and machine learning. We will cover the entire life cycle of data management and science, ranging from data preparation to exploration, visualization and analysis, to machine learning and collaboration, with a focus on ensuring reliable, scalable operationalization.",C187
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"This multidisciplinary course provides an introduction to fundamental conceptual aspects of quantum mechanics from a computational and informational theoretic perspective, as well as physical implementations and technological applications of quantum information science. Basic sections of quantum algorithms, complexity, and cryptography, will be touched upon, as well as pertinent physical realizations from nanoscale science and engineering. ",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"This multidisciplinary course provides an introduction to fundamental conceptual aspects of quantum mechanics from a computational and informational theoretic perspective, as well as physical implementations and technological applications of quantum information science. Basic sections of quantum algorithms, complexity, and cryptography, will be touched upon, as well as pertinent physical realizations from nanoscale science and engineering.",4,"COMPSCI This multidisciplinary course provides an introduction to fundamental conceptual aspects of quantum mechanics from a computational and informational theoretic perspective, as well as physical implementations and technological applications of quantum information science. Basic sections of quantum algorithms, complexity, and cryptography, will be touched upon, as well as pertinent physical realizations from nanoscale science and engineering.",C191
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Explores the data science lifecycle: question formulation, data collection and cleaning, exploratory, analysis, visualization, statistical inference, prediction, and decision-making. Focuses on quantitative critical thinking and key principles and techniques: languages for transforming, querying and analyzing data; algorithms for machine learning methods: regression, classification and clustering; principles of informative visualization; measurement error and prediction; and techniques for scalable data processing. Research term project.",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Explores the data science lifecycle: question formulation, data collection and cleaning, exploratory, analysis, visualization, statistical inference, prediction, and decision-making. Focuses on quantitative critical thinking and key principles and techniques: languages for transforming, querying and analyzing data; algorithms for machine learning methods: regression, classification and clustering; principles of informative visualization; measurement error and prediction; and techniques for scalable data processing. Research term project.",4,"COMPSCI Explores the data science lifecycle: question formulation, data collection and cleaning, exploratory, analysis, visualization, statistical inference, prediction, and decision-making. Focuses on quantitative critical thinking and key principles and techniques: languages for transforming, querying and analyzing data; algorithms for machine learning methods: regression, classification and clustering; principles of informative visualization; measurement error and prediction; and techniques for scalable data processing. Research term project.",C200A
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"This course introduces students to the basics of models, analysis tools, and control for embedded systems operating in real time. Students learn how to combine physical processes with computation. Topics include models of computation, control, analysis and verification, interfacing with the physical world, mapping to platforms, and distributed embedded systems. The course has a strong laboratory component, with emphasis on a semester-long sequence of projects.",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"This course introduces students to the basics of models, analysis tools, and control for embedded systems operating in real time. Students learn how to combine physical processes with computation. Topics include models of computation, control, analysis and verification, interfacing with the physical world, mapping to platforms, and distributed embedded systems. The course has a strong laboratory component, with emphasis on a semester-long sequence of projects.",4,"COMPSCI This course introduces students to the basics of models, analysis tools, and control for embedded systems operating in real time. Students learn how to combine physical processes with computation. Topics include models of computation, control, analysis and verification, interfacing with the physical world, mapping to platforms, and distributed embedded systems. The course has a strong laboratory component, with emphasis on a semester-long sequence of projects.",C249A
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Models for parallel programming.  Overview of parallelism in scientific applications and study of parallel algorithms for linear algebra, particles, meshes, sorting, FFT, graphs, machine learning, etc. Survey of parallel machines and machine structures. Programming shared- and distributed-memory parallel computers, GPUs, and cloud platforms. Parallel programming languages, compilers, libraries and toolboxes. Data partitioning techniques. Techniques for synchronization and load balancing. Detailed study and algorithm/program development of medium sized applications.",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Models for parallel programming.  Overview of parallelism in scientific applications and study of parallel algorithms for linear algebra, particles, meshes, sorting, FFT, graphs, machine learning, etc. Survey of parallel machines and machine structures. Programming shared- and distributed-memory parallel computers, GPUs, and cloud platforms. Parallel programming languages, compilers, libraries and toolboxes. Data partitioning techniques. Techniques for synchronization and load balancing. Detailed study and algorithm/program development of medium sized applications.",3,"COMPSCI Models for parallel programming.  Overview of parallelism in scientific applications and study of parallel algorithms for linear algebra, particles, meshes, sorting, FFT, graphs, machine learning, etc. Survey of parallel machines and machine structures. Programming shared- and distributed-memory parallel computers, GPUs, and cloud platforms. Parallel programming languages, compilers, libraries and toolboxes. Data partitioning techniques. Techniques for synchronization and load balancing. Detailed study and algorithm/program development of medium sized applications.",C267
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Paradigms for computational vision. Relation to human visual perception. Mathematical techniques for representing and reasoning, with curves, surfaces and volumes. Illumination and reflectance models. Color perception. Image segmentation and aggregation. Methods for bottom-up three dimensional shape recovery: Line drawing analysis, stereo, shading, motion, texture. Use of object models for prediction and recognition.",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Paradigms for computational vision. Relation to human visual perception. Mathematical techniques for representing and reasoning, with curves, surfaces and volumes. Illumination and reflectance models. Color perception. Image segmentation and aggregation. Methods for bottom-up three dimensional shape recovery: Line drawing analysis, stereo, shading, motion, texture. Use of object models for prediction and recognition.",3,"COMPSCI Paradigms for computational vision. Relation to human visual perception. Mathematical techniques for representing and reasoning, with curves, surfaces and volumes. Illumination and reflectance models. Color perception. Image segmentation and aggregation. Methods for bottom-up three dimensional shape recovery: Line drawing analysis, stereo, shading, motion, texture. Use of object models for prediction and recognition.",C280
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Classification regression, clustering, dimensionality, reduction, and density estimation. Mixture models, hierarchical models, factorial models, hidden Markov, and state space models, Markov properties, and recursive algorithms for general probabilistic inference nonparametric methods including decision trees, kernal methods, neural networks, and wavelets. Ensemble methods.",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Classification regression, clustering, dimensionality, reduction, and density estimation. Mixture models, hierarchical models, factorial models, hidden Markov, and state space models, Markov properties, and recursive algorithms for general probabilistic inference nonparametric methods including decision trees, kernal methods, neural networks, and wavelets. Ensemble methods.",3,"COMPSCI Classification regression, clustering, dimensionality, reduction, and density estimation. Mixture models, hierarchical models, factorial models, hidden Markov, and state space models, Markov properties, and recursive algorithms for general probabilistic inference nonparametric methods including decision trees, kernal methods, neural networks, and wavelets. Ensemble methods.",C281A
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Recent topics include: Graphical models and approximate inference algorithms. Markov chain Monte Carlo, mean field and probability propagation methods. Model selection and stochastic realization. Bayesian information theoretic and structural risk minimization approaches. Markov decision processes and partially observable Markov decision processes. Reinforcement learning.",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Recent topics include: Graphical models and approximate inference algorithms. Markov chain Monte Carlo, mean field and probability propagation methods. Model selection and stochastic realization. Bayesian information theoretic and structural risk minimization approaches. Markov decision processes and partially observable Markov decision processes. Reinforcement learning.",3,"COMPSCI Recent topics include: Graphical models and approximate inference algorithms. Markov chain Monte Carlo, mean field and probability propagation methods. Model selection and stochastic realization. Bayesian information theoretic and structural risk minimization approaches. Markov decision processes and partially observable Markov decision processes. Reinforcement learning.",C281B
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Foundations of data science from three perspectives: inferential thinking, computational thinking, and real-world relevance. Given data arising from some real-world phenomenon, how does one analyze that data so as to understand that phenomenon? The course teaches critical concepts and skills in computer programming and statistical inference, in conjunction with hands-on analysis of real-world datasets, including economic data, document collections, geographical data, and social networks. It delves into social and legal issues surrounding data analysis, including issues of privacy and data ownership.",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Foundations of data science from three perspectives: inferential thinking, computational thinking, and real-world relevance. Given data arising from some real-world phenomenon, how does one analyze that data so as to understand that phenomenon? The course teaches critical concepts and skills in computer programming and statistical inference, in conjunction with hands-on analysis of real-world datasets, including economic data, document collections, geographical data, and social networks. It delves into social and legal issues surrounding data analysis, including issues of privacy and data ownership.",4,"COMPSCI Foundations of data science from three perspectives: inferential thinking, computational thinking, and real-world relevance. Given data arising from some real-world phenomenon, how does one analyze that data so as to understand that phenomenon? The course teaches critical concepts and skills in computer programming and statistical inference, in conjunction with hands-on analysis of real-world datasets, including economic data, document collections, geographical data, and social networks. It delves into social and legal issues surrounding data analysis, including issues of privacy and data ownership.",C8
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Development of Computer Science topics appearing in Foundations of Data Science (C8); expands computational concepts and techniques of abstraction. Understanding  the structures that underlie the programs, algorithms, and languages used in data science and elsewhere.   Mastery of a particular programming language while studying general techniques for managing program complexity, e.g., functional, object-oriented, and declarative programming. Provides practical experience with composing larger systems through several significant programming projects.",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Development of Computer Science topics appearing in Foundations of Data Science (C8); expands computational concepts and techniques of abstraction. Understanding  the structures that underlie the programs, algorithms, and languages used in data science and elsewhere.   Mastery of a particular programming language while studying general techniques for managing program complexity, e.g., functional, object-oriented, and declarative programming. Provides practical experience with composing larger systems through several significant programming projects.",3,"COMPSCI Development of Computer Science topics appearing in Foundations of Data Science (C8); expands computational concepts and techniques of abstraction. Understanding  the structures that underlie the programs, algorithms, and languages used in data science and elsewhere.   Mastery of a particular programming language while studying general techniques for managing program complexity, e.g., functional, object-oriented, and declarative programming. Provides practical experience with composing larger systems through several significant programming projects.",C88C
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"An introduction to computational thinking and quantitative reasoning, preparing students for further coursework, especially Foundations of Data Science (CS/Info/Stat C8).  Emphasizes the use of computation to gain insight about quantitative problems with real data. Expressions, data types, collections, and tables in Python. Programming practices, abstraction, and iteration.  Visualizing univariate and bivariate data with bar charts, histograms, plots, and maps. Introduction to statistical concepts including averages and distributions, predicting one variable from another, association and causality, probability and probabilistic simulation. Relationship between numerical functions and graphs. Sampling and introduction to inference.",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"An introduction to computational thinking and quantitative reasoning, preparing students for further coursework, especially Foundations of Data Science (CS/Info/Stat C8).  Emphasizes the use of computation to gain insight about quantitative problems with real data. Expressions, data types, collections, and tables in Python. Programming practices, abstraction, and iteration.  Visualizing univariate and bivariate data with bar charts, histograms, plots, and maps. Introduction to statistical concepts including averages and distributions, predicting one variable from another, association and causality, probability and probabilistic simulation. Relationship between numerical functions and graphs. Sampling and introduction to inference.",3,"COMPSCI An introduction to computational thinking and quantitative reasoning, preparing students for further coursework, especially Foundations of Data Science (CS/Info/Stat C8).  Emphasizes the use of computation to gain insight about quantitative problems with real data. Expressions, data types, collections, and tables in Python. Programming practices, abstraction, and iteration.  Visualizing univariate and bivariate data with bar charts, histograms, plots, and maps. Introduction to statistical concepts including averages and distributions, predicting one variable from another, association and causality, probability and probabilistic simulation. Relationship between numerical functions and graphs. Sampling and introduction to inference.",C8R
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,Topics include electronic community; the changing nature of work; technological risks; the information economy; intellectual property; privacy; artificial intelligence and the sense of self; pornography and censorship; professional ethics. Students may lead discussions on additional topics.,UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,Topics include electronic community; the changing nature of work; technological risks; the information economy; intellectual property; privacy; artificial intelligence and the sense of self; pornography and censorship; professional ethics. Students may lead discussions on additional topics.,3,COMPSCI Topics include electronic community; the changing nature of work; technological risks; the information economy; intellectual property; privacy; artificial intelligence and the sense of self; pornography and censorship; professional ethics. Students may lead discussions on additional topics.,H195
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,Study in-depth of several topics in computer science to be chosen by the instructor. Students will assess current literature in the topics and present critiques to the class. Each student will carry out a project.,UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,Study in-depth of several topics in computer science to be chosen by the instructor. Students will assess current literature in the topics and present critiques to the class. Each student will carry out a project.,3,COMPSCI Study in-depth of several topics in computer science to be chosen by the instructor. Students will assess current literature in the topics and present critiques to the class. Each student will carry out a project.,H196
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Thesis work under the supervision of a faculty member. To obtain credit the student must, at the end of two semesters, submit a satisfactory thesis to the Electrical Engineering and Computer Science department archive. A total of four units must be taken. The units many be distributed between one or two semesters in any way. H196A-H196B count as graded technical elective units, but may not be used to satisfy the requirement for 27 upper division technical units in the College of Letters and Science with a major in Computer Science.",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Thesis work under the supervision of a faculty member. To obtain credit the student must, at the end of two semesters, submit a satisfactory thesis to the Electrical Engineering and Computer Science department archive. A total of four units must be taken. The units many be distributed between one or two semesters in any way. H196A-H196B count as graded technical elective units, but may not be used to satisfy the requirement for 27 upper division technical units in the College of Letters and Science with a major in Computer Science.",1,"COMPSCI Thesis work under the supervision of a faculty member. To obtain credit the student must, at the end of two semesters, submit a satisfactory thesis to the Electrical Engineering and Computer Science department archive. A total of four units must be taken. The units many be distributed between one or two semesters in any way. H196A-H196B count as graded technical elective units, but may not be used to satisfy the requirement for 27 upper division technical units in the College of Letters and Science with a major in Computer Science.",H196A
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"Thesis work under the supervision of a faculty member. To obtain credit the student must, at the end of two semesters, submit a satisfactory thesis to the Electrical Engineering and Computer Science department archive. A total of four units must be taken. The units many be distributed between one or two semesters in any way. H196A-H196B count as graded technical elective units, but may not be used to satisfy the requirement for 27 upper division technical units in the College of Letters and Science with a major in Computer Science.",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"Thesis work under the supervision of a faculty member. To obtain credit the student must, at the end of two semesters, submit a satisfactory thesis to the Electrical Engineering and Computer Science department archive. A total of four units must be taken. The units many be distributed between one or two semesters in any way. H196A-H196B count as graded technical elective units, but may not be used to satisfy the requirement for 27 upper division technical units in the College of Letters and Science with a major in Computer Science.",1,"COMPSCI Thesis work under the supervision of a faculty member. To obtain credit the student must, at the end of two semesters, submit a satisfactory thesis to the Electrical Engineering and Computer Science department archive. A total of four units must be taken. The units many be distributed between one or two semesters in any way. H196A-H196B count as graded technical elective units, but may not be used to satisfy the requirement for 27 upper division technical units in the College of Letters and Science with a major in Computer Science.",H196B
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,"This course meets the programming prerequisite for 61A. An introduction to the beauty and joy of computing. The history, social implications, great principles, and future of computing. Beautiful applications that have changed the world. How computing empowers discovery and progress in other fields. Relevance of computing to the student and society will be emphasized. Students will learn the joy of programming a computer using a friendly, graphical language, and will complete a substantial team programming project related to their interests. ",UC Berkeley,COMPSCI,"This course meets the programming prerequisite for 61A. An introduction to the beauty and joy of computing. The history, social implications, great principles, and future of computing. Beautiful applications that have changed the world. How computing empowers discovery and progress in other fields. Relevance of computing to the student and society will be emphasized. Students will learn the joy of programming a computer using a friendly, graphical language, and will complete a substantial team programming project related to their interests.",4,"COMPSCI This course meets the programming prerequisite for 61A. An introduction to the beauty and joy of computing. The history, social implications, great principles, and future of computing. Beautiful applications that have changed the world. How computing empowers discovery and progress in other fields. Relevance of computing to the student and society will be emphasized. Students will learn the joy of programming a computer using a friendly, graphical language, and will complete a substantial team programming project related to their interests.",W10
Computational Social Science Graduate Group,"The Master of Computational Social Science program requires students to be proficient in the basic computing skills required for computational social science  this class aims to bring all entering students up to the required level of proficiency. It covers the process of setting up a computing environment for data science tasks, usage of Python for scientific programming, the ecosystem of common Python packages for data science tasks, accessing data from different types of files, databases, and web scraping, APIs, and computing on remote systems. ",UC Berkeley,COMPSS,"The Master of Computational Social Science program requires students to be proficient in the basic computing skills required for computational social science  this class aims to bring all entering students up to the required level of proficiency. It covers the process of setting up a computing environment for data science tasks, usage of Python for scientific programming, the ecosystem of common Python packages for data science tasks, accessing data from different types of files, databases, and web scraping, APIs, and computing on remote systems.",3,"COMPSS The Master of Computational Social Science program requires students to be proficient in the basic computing skills required for computational social science  this class aims to bring all entering students up to the required level of proficiency. It covers the process of setting up a computing environment for data science tasks, usage of Python for scientific programming, the ecosystem of common Python packages for data science tasks, accessing data from different types of files, databases, and web scraping, APIs, and computing on remote systems.",201
Computational Social Science Graduate Group,"Statistical analysis is the backbone of applied scientific thought, and it also features prominently in business and policy, both historically and today. This course aims to help bring all entering MaCSS students up to the required level of proficiency in applied statistics to be successful in their coursework and future careers. Students will develop the statistical intuition and analytical techniques to achieve proficiency in programming in R with Jupyter notebooks and with RStudio, univariate statistics, measurement reliability and validity, sampling and inference, hypothesis testing, and linear regression.",UC Berkeley,COMPSS,"Statistical analysis is the backbone of applied scientific thought, and it also features prominently in business and policy, both historically and today. This course aims to help bring all entering MaCSS students up to the required level of proficiency in applied statistics to be successful in their coursework and future careers. Students will develop the statistical intuition and analytical techniques to achieve proficiency in programming in R with Jupyter notebooks and with RStudio, univariate statistics, measurement reliability and validity, sampling and inference, hypothesis testing, and linear regression.",3,"COMPSS Statistical analysis is the backbone of applied scientific thought, and it also features prominently in business and policy, both historically and today. This course aims to help bring all entering MaCSS students up to the required level of proficiency in applied statistics to be successful in their coursework and future careers. Students will develop the statistical intuition and analytical techniques to achieve proficiency in programming in R with Jupyter notebooks and with RStudio, univariate statistics, measurement reliability and validity, sampling and inference, hypothesis testing, and linear regression.",202
